# Mcirotask - 2 

# Summary

## Submission and Review workflow

I submitted a draft PR to the event-diversity-and-inclusion repository on a mock event. The fields involved in submitting an event describes how the events are diverse and inclusive. All the parts involved in creating an event exhibits the diversity and inclusion of an event. The questions differ from project and event. 

The attendee demographics and speaker demographics will give better insights to understand the diversity and inclusion of attendees and speakers. The various fields in the attendee demographics and speaker demographics like age, place, region, nationality, and gender, etc can exhibit that diverse people are involving in an event. Having a proper CoC is always necessary for an event. The CoC provides the strict protocols that the attendees had to follow in an event and strict actions will be taken if someone violated the rules at an event. The Diversity Access Tickets exhibits the interest of sponsors in sponsoring the event in the future. Family friendliness will have a great impact on the event and the addition of youth and children to the event can boost the energy of people in the event. By involving the family in the event the diversity and inclusion of the event will be developed.

After answering the questions of the project or event. The PR should be submitted in the open repository. As the CHAOSS D&I Badging program follows the peer-review process the peers will review the PR.  As per the requirements met the badge will be provided to the event or project. 

If a project or event exhibits a badge receives a badge that means the project or event is following best practices of diversity and inclusion. 
