# Microtask 0

> Q1

# About CII practices

 - The **CII** (Core Infrastructure Initiative) is to show that the projects follow best practices. 
- The fascinating part of this program is the project can voluntarily self-certify, at no cost, by using this web application to explain how they follow each best practices.
- The CII badging was inspired by the other badges available in the Github.
- By providing the badges to projects as a result they were more likely to produce higher quality secure platforms. However, there where there is no set of practices that can guarantee that software will never have defects or vulnerabilities; even formal methods can fail if the specifications or assumptions are wrong. 

- **These best practices have been created to:**
	- Encourage projects to follow best practices,
	- Help new projects discover what those practices are, and
	- Help users know which projects are following best practices
- The requirements vary from badge to badge as the badge level goes higher the requirements need to be secure and trustworthy. The standards for the project is also going to vary as the badge level varies.
 
- As of my observation, avoiding Formal-Peer-Review and relying on the self-certify website is not a good practice. There can be some cases where a project can be vulnerable to the community. 

However, I couldn't find the criteria and the background of events in CII. I guess the CII is only for badging projects not for events.

The differences in **CHAOSS D&I Badging workflow** of event and project are:

## Event

- The standards followed in CHAOSS D&I Badging program in verifying an event are more focused on the code of conduct and the demographics of people.
- The attendee demographics in an event can help us to know the diverse nature of the people and it also gives a chance us to know about the commitment of attendees towards diversity and inclusion.
-  The Code of conduct plays a predominant role in any event. The Code of conduct provides strict standards and protocols that have to be followed by the attendees in an event. Upon violating the code of conduct a clear avenue is always needed, support and proper justification should be given to victims.
- Diversity Access Tickets are helpful to know about the precious results of an event how the attendees have involved in the event. Direct Access Tickets also shows the interested sponsors. 
- Family friendliness of an event shows the diversity and inclusion of an event and also allowing children and youth the events can bring an impact to the diversity and inclusion.
- Understanding Speaker demographics will give a brief insight into the event and it also shares the quality if the event.
## Projects

- Communication channels in the project show how welcoming, responsive, and respectful are interactions even on hot topics of debate.
- Response Time's & Quality shows the quality of the responses from the developers, administrators, or collaborators. It also shows whether the responses are quick or slow and their quality.
- Having proper documentation for projects is predominant and a project without proper documentation is of no use. Having a proper README and Contributing files in a project will attract people from various diversity and it can increase software development.


However, these requirements are not sufficient for validating a project. 

- Using formal peer review instead of self-certifying will helps us to avoid vulnerabilities in a project. 
- The license should be checked in the projects.
- Security is a primary requirement in any project and having good cryptographic practices in a project can avoid vulnerabilities and attacks in the future.
- Code analysis should be done as a requirement.
- The requirements should be changed for D&I Badging program as the badge varies from level to level. The requirements for the projects in gold and silver should follow best practices and standards.    


 
